Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday visited his Lok Sabha constituency to mark the Good Governance Day.

Speaking at a function at the BHU, PM Modi said that "21st century is an era of knowledge. We have to contribute something or the other that benefits the world at large".

Criticising the present Indian education system, the PM said that "our education apparatus can't be one that produces robots. That can happen in laboratory. There has to be overall personality development".

"Today the entire world requires good teachers. Good education is linked with good teachers. We need to think about how we can have good teachers," the PM said.

"After my experience of 6 months, I can say the world is looking at India," the PM said.

"Every school can develop a mastery on any one aspect of Varanasi and this can be a great way to showcase Kashi," the PM added. "A tourist will come here drawn to the beautiful past but he or she will stay when we create systems that make them stay here," PM Modi said.
Taking forward his Swachh Bharat campaign, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday revisited his constituency and lauded people for helping rid the Assi Ghat of mounds of soil and garbage to restore the historical site to its old glory.

In the holy city to mark the Good Governance Day, he supervised the cleanliness campaign and also nominated various people and organisations to join the 'Swachh Bharat (clean India)' campaign launched by his government on Mahatma Gandhi's birthday on October 2 last.
Modi on November 8 had wielded a spade to remove silt deposited at the ghat along the banks of the Ganga as part of his clean India campaign.

"People, social organisations, municipal coporation and state government have played an important role and we are seeing today that the ghat, which was full of soil, is now back to its old beauty along side Mother Ganga," he said in a brief address.

The Prime Minister nominated for the campaign Nagaland governor Padmanabha Acharya, former IPS officer and activist Kiran Bedi, former Indian cricket team captain Sourav Ganguly, comedian Kapil Sharma, classical dancer Sonal Mansingh, Ramoji Rao of Eenadu group and Aroon Purie of India Today group. He had nominated some people during his last visit as well.

In a first, he also nominated some organisations which included Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, Eenadu and India Today groups besides 'dabbawallah' of Mumbai, who deliver home-made food to lakhs of people in the city.