The business of PK is on the expected line. Finally the numbers have come in and the movie is already established. Commenting on has the business being affected by not having screened in few single screens, then I would say that it could have added the numbers, but it has not affected the collections largely. PK is a multiplex film, and I don’t know why people don’t agree, but the movie infact has picked up very well with the word of mouth and even the media has given thumbs up. And yesterday being a big holiday, it again made big numbers, and looking at the response it is getting at the Box- Office the movie is seen heading towards 200 Cr with a fast pace. Will the movie make 300 Cr, well, that can only be decided after next week, but, yes, the film is heading towards big numbers.
Yes, I definitely think the numbers are as per expectations and we are looking at the movie which is going to do 300 Cr. So, I think its performance is at par at what the expectations were and I think it might succeed the expectations also as we still have 1st January too as a Holiday. So with the number of holidays the movie is going to break all records. The opening day wasn’t that big, but, then with the reviews and word of mouth, the movie has picked up over the weekend and Sunday was fabulous. We cannot say that the movie has disappointed us in any way. Looking at my territory there is no drop in the Nexus. The Nexus are rock steady. PK is a movie which has the potential to go beyond 300 crore lifetime collections. There is no drop, the way normal movies drop, good movies with good reviews even have a drop, but we are not seeing that kind of drop in PK.
The conditions obviously are as expected or rather more awfully expected. The movie has sustained fabulously through the week. Yesterday being Christmas, the collections were huge and the movie is going to sustain fabulously in the winter vacation. And the way the film has sustained, 99.9% we are looking at PK as the biggest grosser ever. The movie’s collections were hardly affected by not getting released in few single screens, it was almost negligible.

So, while the trade experts predict that PK will make a 300 Crore business easily, what do you think